docs/pages/column-headers-and-footers.rst, before:

.. _column-headers-and-footers:

Customizing headers and footers
===============================

By default an header and no footer will be rendered.


Adding column footers
=====================

The header cell for each column comes from `~.Column.header`. By default this
method returns `~.Column.verbose_name`, falling back to the titlised attribute
name of the column in the table class.

When using queryset data and a verbose name hasn't been explicitly defined for
a column, the corresponding model field's `verbose_name` will be used.

Consider the following:

    >>> class Region(models.Model):
    ...     name = models.CharField(max_length=200)
    ...
    >>> class Person(models.Model):
    ...     first_name = models.CharField(verbose_name='model verbose name', max_length=200)
    ...     last_name = models.CharField(max_length=200)
    ...     region = models.ForeignKey('Region')
    ...
    >>> class PersonTable(tables.Table):
    ...     first_name = tables.Column()
    ...     ln = tables.Column(accessor='last_name')
    ...     region_name = tables.Column(accessor='region.name')
    ...
    >>> table = PersonTable(Person.objects.all())
    >>> table.columns['first_name'].header
    'Model Verbose Name'
    >>> table.columns['ln'].header
    'Last Name'
    >>> table.columns['region_name'].header
    'Name'

As you can see in the last example (region name), the results are not always
desirable when an accessor is used to cross relationships. To get around this
be careful to define `.Column.verbose_name`.


Adding column footers
=====================

By default, no footer will be rendered. If you want to add a footer, define a
footer for at least one column. That will make the table render

`footer`-argument to the `~.Column` constructor.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The simplest case is just passing a `str` as the footer argument to a column:

.. sourcecode:: python

    country = tables.Column(footer='Total:')

This will just render the string in the footer. If you need to do more complex
things, like showing a sum or an average, you can pass a callable.

.. sourcecode:: python

    population = tables.Column(
        footer=lambda table: sum(x['population'] for x in table.data)
    )

You can expect `table`, `column` and `bound_column` as argument.

Define `render_footer` on a custom column.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you need the same footer in multiple columns, you can create your own custom
column. For example this column that renders the sum of the values in the column.

.. sourcecode:: python

    class SummingColumn(tables.Column):
        def render_footer(self, bound_column, table):
            return sum(bound_column.accessor.resolve(row) for row in table.data)


Then use this column like so:

.. sourcecode:: python

    class Table(tables.Table):
        name = tables.Column()
        country = tables.Column(footer='Total:')
        population = SummingColumn()

Commit message:

Some more work on documenting table footers

docs/pages/column-headers-and-footers.rst, after:

.. _column-headers-and-footers:

Customizing headers and footers
===============================

By default an header and no footer will be rendered.


Adding column headers
=====================

The header cell for each column comes from `~.Column.header`. By default this
method returns `~.Column.verbose_name`, falling back to the titlised attribute
name of the column in the table class.

When using queryset data and a verbose name hasn't been explicitly defined for
a column, the corresponding model field's `verbose_name` will be used.

Consider the following:

    >>> class Region(models.Model):
    ...     name = models.CharField(max_length=200)
    ...
    >>> class Person(models.Model):
    ...     first_name = models.CharField(verbose_name='model verbose name', max_length=200)
    ...     last_name = models.CharField(max_length=200)
    ...     region = models.ForeignKey('Region')
    ...
    >>> class PersonTable(tables.Table):
    ...     first_name = tables.Column()
    ...     ln = tables.Column(accessor='last_name')
    ...     region_name = tables.Column(accessor='region.name')
    ...
    >>> table = PersonTable(Person.objects.all())
    >>> table.columns['first_name'].header
    'Model Verbose Name'
    >>> table.columns['ln'].header
    'Last Name'
    >>> table.columns['region_name'].header
    'Name'

As you can see in the last example (region name), the results are not always
desirable when an accessor is used to cross relationships. To get around this
be careful to define `.Column.verbose_name`.


Adding column footers
=====================

By default, no footer will be rendered. If you want to add a footer, define a
footer on at least one column.

That will make the table render a footer on every view of the table. It's up to
you to decide if that makes sense if your table is paginated.

Pass `footer`-argument to the `~.Column` constructor.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The simplest case is just passing a `str` as the footer argument to a column::

    country = tables.Column(footer='Total:')

This will just render the string in the footer. If you need to do more complex
things, like showing a sum or an average, you can pass a callable::

    population = tables.Column(
        footer=lambda table: sum(x['population'] for x in table.data)
    )

You can expect `table`, `column` and `bound_column` as argument.

Define `render_footer` on a custom column.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you need the same footer in multiple columns, you can create your own custom
column. For example this column that renders the sum of the values in the column::

    class SummingColumn(tables.Column):
        def render_footer(self, bound_column, table):
            return sum(bound_column.accessor.resolve(row) for row in table.data)


Then use this column like so::

    class Table(tables.Table):
        name = tables.Column()
        country = tables.Column(footer='Total:')
        population = SummingColumn()


.. note::

    If you are `sum`\ ming over tables with big datasets, chances are it's going
    to be slow. You should use some database aggregation function instead.
