docs/pages/faq.rst, before:

.. _faq:

..
    Any code examples in this file should have a corresponding test in
    tests/test_faq.py

FAQ
===

Some frequently requested questions/examples. All examples assume you
import djang-tables2 like this::

    import django_tables2 as tables

How should I fix error messages about the request context processor?
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The error message looks something like this::

    Tag {% querystring %} requires django.template.context_processors.request to be
    in the template configuration in settings.TEMPLATES[]OPTIONS.context_processors)
    in order for the included template tags to function correctly.

which should be pretty clear, but here is an example template configuration anyway::

    TEMPLATES = [
        {
            'BACKEND': 'django.template.backends.django.DjangoTemplates',
            'DIRS': ['templates'],
            'APP_DIRS': True,
            'OPTIONS': {
                'context_processors': [
                    'django.contrib.auth.context_processors.auth',
                    'django.template.context_processors.request',
                    'django.template.context_processors.static',
                ],
            }
        }
    ]

How to create a row counter?
----------------------------

You can use `itertools.counter` to add row count to a table. Note that in a
paginated table, every page's counter will start at zero.

Use a `render_counter()`-method::

    import itertools

    class CountryTable(tables.Table):
        counter = tables.Column(empty_values=(), orderable=False)

        def render_counter(self):
            self.row_counter = getattr(self, 'row_counter', itertools.count())
            return next(self.row_counter)



Or create a specialized column::

    import itertools

    class CounterColumn(tables.Column):
        def __init__(self, *args, **kwargs):
            self.counter = itertools.count()
            kwargs.update({
                'empty_values': (),
                'orderable': False
            })
            super(CounterColumn, self).__init__(*args, **kwargs)

        def render(self):
            return next(self.counter)


How to add a footer containing a column total?
----------------------------------------------

Using the `footer`-argument to `~.Column`::

    class CountryTable(tables.Table):
        population = tables.Column(
            footer=lambda table: sum(x['population'] for x in table.data)
        )

Or by creating a custom column::

    class SummingColumn(tables.Column):
        def render_footer(self, bound_column, table):
            return sum(bound_column.accessor.resolve(row) for row in table.data)

    class Table(tables.Table):
        name = tables.Column(footer='Total:')
        population = SummingColumn()

Documentation: :ref:`column-footers`

.. note ::
    You table template must include a block rendering the table footer!

Commit message:

Docs update for #400 (#401)
* Non-column attributes on child class overwrite column attributes of parent class (fix #399)

* Fix and add to FAQ for #399.

docs/pages/faq.rst, after:

.. _faq:

..
    Any code examples in this file should have a corresponding test in
    tests/test_faq.py

FAQ
===

Some frequently requested questions/examples. All examples assume you
import django-tables2 like this::

    import django_tables2 as tables

How should I fix error messages about the request context processor?
--------------------------------------------------------------------

The error message looks something like this::

    Tag {% querystring %} requires django.template.context_processors.request to be
    in the template configuration in settings.TEMPLATES[]OPTIONS.context_processors)
    in order for the included template tags to function correctly.

which should be pretty clear, but here is an example template configuration anyway::

    TEMPLATES = [
        {
            'BACKEND': 'django.template.backends.django.DjangoTemplates',
            'DIRS': ['templates'],
            'APP_DIRS': True,
            'OPTIONS': {
                'context_processors': [
                    'django.contrib.auth.context_processors.auth',
                    'django.template.context_processors.request',
                    'django.template.context_processors.static',
                ],
            }
        }
    ]

How to create a row counter?
----------------------------

You can use `itertools.counter` to add row count to a table. Note that in a
paginated table, every page's counter will start at zero.

Use a `render_counter()`-method::

    import itertools

    class CountryTable(tables.Table):
        counter = tables.Column(empty_values=(), orderable=False)

        def render_counter(self):
            self.row_counter = getattr(self, 'row_counter', itertools.count())
            return next(self.row_counter)



Or create a specialized column::

    import itertools

    class CounterColumn(tables.Column):
        def __init__(self, *args, **kwargs):
            self.counter = itertools.count()
            kwargs.update({
                'empty_values': (),
                'orderable': False
            })
            super(CounterColumn, self).__init__(*args, **kwargs)

        def render(self):
            return next(self.counter)


How to add a footer containing a column total?
----------------------------------------------

Using the `footer`-argument to `~.Column`::

    class CountryTable(tables.Table):
        population = tables.Column(
            footer=lambda table: sum(x['population'] for x in table.data)
        )

Or by creating a custom column::

    class SummingColumn(tables.Column):
        def render_footer(self, bound_column, table):
            return sum(bound_column.accessor.resolve(row) for row in table.data)

    class Table(tables.Table):
        name = tables.Column(footer='Total:')
        population = SummingColumn()

Documentation: :ref:`column-footers`

.. note ::
    Your table template must include a block rendering the table footer!


Can I use inheritance to build Tables that share features?
----------------------------------------------------------

Yes, like this::

    class CountryTable(tables.Table):
        name = tables.Column()
        language = tables.Column()

A `CountryTable` will show columns `name` and `language`.

    class TouristCountryTable(CountryTable):
        tourist_info = tables.Column()

A `TouristCountryTable` will show columns `name`, `language` and `tourist_info`.

Overwriting a Column attribute from the base class with anything that is not a Column will result in removing that Column from the Table. For example:

    class SimpleCountryTable(CountryTable):
        language = None

A `SimpleCountryTable` will only show column `name`.
