docs/pages/table-data.rst, before:

.. _table_data:

Populating a table with data
============================

Tables can be created from a range of input data structures. If you have seen the
tutorial you will have seen a ``QuerySet`` being used, however any iterable that
supports :func:`len` and contains items that exposes key-based access to column
values is fine.


List of dicts
-------------

An an example we will demonstrate using list of dicts. When defining a table
it is necessary to declare each column::

    import django_tables2 as tables

    data = [
        {"name": "Bradley"},
        {"name": "Stevie"},
    ]

    class NameTable(tables.Table):
        name = tables.Column()

    table = NameTable(data)


QuerySets
---------

If you build use tables to display `~django.db.models.query.QuerySet` data,
rather than defining each column manually in the table, the `.Table.Meta.model`
option allows tables to be dynamically created based on a model::

    # models.py
    from django.contrib.auth import get_user_model
    from django.db import models

    class Person(models.Model):
        first_name = models.CharField(max_length=200)
        last_name = models.CharField(max_length=200)
        user = models.ForeignKey(get_user_model(), null=True, on_delete=models.CASCADE)
        birth_date = models.DateField()

    # tables.py
    import django_tables2 as tables

    class PersonTable(tables.Table):
        class Meta:
            model = Person

    # views.py
    def person_list(request):
        table = PersonTable(Person.objects.all())

        return render(request, "person_list.html", {
            "table": table
        })

This has a number of benefits:

- Less repetition
- Column headers are defined using the field's `~.models.Field.verbose_name`
- Specialized columns are used where possible (e.g. `.DateColumn` for a
  `~.models.DateField`)

When using this approach, the following options might be useful to customize
what fields to show or hide:

- `~.Table.Meta.sequence` -- reorder columns
- `~.Table.Meta.fields` -- specify model fields to *include*
- `~.Table.Meta.exclude` -- specify model fields to *exclude*

Performance
-----------

Django-tables tries to be efficient in displaying big datasets. It tries to
avoid converting the `~django.db.models.query.QuerySet` instances to lists by
using SQL to slice the data and should be able to handle datasets with 100k
records without a problem.

However, when performance is degrading, these tips might help:

1. For large datasets, try to use `.LazyPaginator`.
2. Try to strip the table of customizations and check if performance improves.
   If so, re-add them one by one, checking for performance after each step.
   This should help to narrow down the source of your performance problems.

Commit message:

Update table_data.rst with "sequence" and "exclude" examples (#765)
* Update table_data.rst with "sequence" and "exclude" examples

Adding an example on this page of the tutorial will be helpful for beginners, who might struggle to realize how to use the "sequence", "include" and "exclude" options.

Even though the previous page of the tutorial explains a brief "include" example, this might not be obvious to a beginner. The tutorial also doesn't explain how each of these options works and this example helps to visualize it in a brief way.

* Update table_data.rst - added example explanation

Added explanation on how ``sequence`` works when used alone and provided further explanation for the example

* Update docs/pages/table-data.rst

Co-authored-by: Jan Pieter Waagmeester <jieter@jieter.nl>

Co-authored-by: Jan Pieter Waagmeester <jieter@jieter.nl>

docs/pages/table-data.rst, after:

.. _table_data:

Populating a table with data
============================

Tables can be created from a range of input data structures. If you have seen the
tutorial you will have seen a ``QuerySet`` being used, however any iterable that
supports :func:`len` and contains items that exposes key-based access to column
values is fine.


List of dicts
-------------

In an example we will demonstrate using list of dicts. When defining a table
it is necessary to declare each column::

    import django_tables2 as tables

    data = [
        {"name": "Bradley"},
        {"name": "Stevie"},
    ]

    class NameTable(tables.Table):
        name = tables.Column()

    table = NameTable(data)


QuerySets
---------

If you build use tables to display `~django.db.models.query.QuerySet` data,
rather than defining each column manually in the table, the `.Table.Meta.model`
option allows tables to be dynamically created based on a model::

    # models.py
    from django.contrib.auth import get_user_model
    from django.db import models

    class Person(models.Model):
        first_name = models.CharField(max_length=200)
        last_name = models.CharField(max_length=200)
        user = models.ForeignKey(get_user_model(), null=True, on_delete=models.CASCADE)
        birth_date = models.DateField()

    # tables.py
    import django_tables2 as tables

    class PersonTable(tables.Table):
        class Meta:
            model = Person

    # views.py
    def person_list(request):
        table = PersonTable(Person.objects.all())

        return render(request, "person_list.html", {
            "table": table
        })

This has a number of benefits:

- Less repetition
- Column headers are defined using the field's `~.models.Field.verbose_name`
- Specialized columns are used where possible (e.g. `.DateColumn` for a
  `~.models.DateField`)

When using this approach, the following options might be useful to customize
what fields to show or hide:

- `~.Table.Meta.sequence` -- reorder columns (if used alone, columns that are not specified are still rendered in the table after the specified columns)
- `~.Table.Meta.fields` -- specify model fields to *include*
- `~.Table.Meta.exclude` -- specify model fields to *exclude*

These options can be specified as tuples. In this example we will demonstrate how this can be done::
    
    # tables.py
    class PersonTable(tables.Table):
        class Meta:
            model = Person
            sequence = ("last_name", "first_name", "birth_date", )
            exclude = ("user", )

With these options specified, the columns would be show according to the order defined in the `~.Table.Meta.sequence`, while the ``user`` column will be hidden.

Performance
-----------

Django-tables tries to be efficient in displaying big datasets. It tries to
avoid converting the `~django.db.models.query.QuerySet` instances to lists by
using SQL to slice the data and should be able to handle datasets with 100k
records without a problem.

However, when performance is degrading, these tips might help:

1. For large datasets, try to use `.LazyPaginator`.
2. Try to strip the table of customizations and check if performance improves.
   If so, re-add them one by one, checking for performance after each step.
   This should help to narrow down the source of your performance problems.
